# RaViDeep: Target Detection Based on Deep Fusion of Radar and Vision in Berthing Scenarios
This repo implements the paper RaViDeep: Target Detection Based on Deep Fusion of Radar and Vision in Berthing Scenarios


## Abstract
Current radar-vision fusion techniques struggle to fully leverage the complementary data from sparse radar points and depth-deficient images, impacting their overall effectiveness. This paper proposes RaViDeep, a novel target detection method based on deep fusion of millimeter-wave radar and monocular image. Initially, a Semantic-based Point Cloud Registration (SPCR) module combines image semantics, radar hierarchical features and Doppler data to enhance target spatial representation, yielding dense and stable semantic radar points. Subsequently, a Radar-Guided Depth Estimation (RGDE) module with Gaussian enhancement is introduced, utilizing accurate radar depth measurements to guide image depth estimation. This approach fosters a comprehensive scene understanding and effectively reduces measurement and calibration errors. Finally, a pseudo point cloud, generated by the estimated image depth, is integrated with the semantic radar points to facilitate target detection. Tailored for autonomous berthing tasks in wharf scenarios, a novel Non-Occupied Overlap (NOO) metric is developed. Experimental results demonstrate that RaViDeep surpasses state-of-the-art methods, achieving a 53.6% improvement in the NOO metric in sparse scenarios and a remarkable 131.2% improvement in dense scenarios. These results verify the superior performance and robustness of our method in pratical wharf scenarios.

## Data

We provide a test dataset on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Lj4-ptARwYOMg1mnckI6MRkH9jI126Kb?usp=drive_link), with more data to be gradually organized and uploaded in the future.

## Results

### LiDAR & Cam
| Methods                                                           | Pre.  | Rec.  | mNOO  | Ship  | Shore | Pillar |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|--------|
| [RaViDet](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9764241/) | 0.529 | 0.557 | 0.469 | 0.446 | 0.608 | 0.493  |
| RaViDeep(Ours)                                                    | 0.797 | 0.893 | 0.704 | 0.684 | 0.742 | 0.669  |
